seventy-five years ago the USS Makin a
785 foot US Navy dirigible was lost
offshore of Point Sur California the
airship was intended to serve as a scout
ship for the Pacific Fleet and had the
ability to launch and recover biplanes
but on February 12 1935 after less than
two years of service the ship was
damaged in a storm and dropped tail
first into the chilly waters of the
Pacific all the - of the Macon's
eighty-three crewmen were rescued
the wreckage of the maken in four
aircraft now light a depth of more than
1,500 feet within the boundaries of the
Monterey Bay National Marine Sanctuary
on February 12 2010 in commemoration of
the 75th anniversary of the loss of the
airship the wreck site was added to the
National Register of Historic Places
direct sight includes the airships
hangar bay containing its four
Sparrowhawk biplanes and her detached
landing gear five of the Macon's eight
engines have been identified along with
objects from the ship's galley including
two sections of the aluminum stove in
the enlisted men's dining table and
bench aluminum chairs and desks that may
have been in a port site officers or
meteorologists office have also been
found the National Register of Historic
Places is the nation's official list of
cultural places considered worth
preserving
the remains of the maken provide an
opportunity to study the relatively
undisturbed remnants of a unique period
of aviation history the Macon's remains
represent the only archaeologically
documented example of such an aircraft
in the US and possibly the world